---+ Transparent Inter-Process Communications (TIPC)

These pages are not intended as a   comprehensive tutorial in the use of
TIPC      services.      The       TIPC        Programmer's       Guide,
<http://tipc.sf.net/doc/Programmers_Guide.txt>, provides assistance   to
developers who are creating applications that utilize TIPC services. The
TIPC User's Guide, <http://tipc.sf.net/doc/Users_Guide.txt>, provides an
administrator of a TIPC cluster with   the information needed to operate
one. A TIPC server loadable module, that  may   be  used  to make a host
available as a TIPC enabled node, has been   a  part of the Linux kernel
since 2.6.16. Please see: <http://tipc.sf.net>

---++ Overview

In a TIPC network, a Node is   comprised  of a collection of lightweight
threads of execution operating  in  the   same  process,  or heavyweight
processes operating on the same machine. A   Cluster  is a collection of
Nodes operating on different machines, and   operating indirectly by way
of a local Ethernet or other networking  medium. Clusters may be further
aggregated into Zones, and Zones into Networks. The address space of two
TIPC networks is completely disjoint. Zones   on  different networks may
coexist on the same LAN but they   may not communicate directly with one
another. 

TIPC  provides  connectionless,  connection-oriented,    reliable,   and
unreliable forwarding strategies for both   stream  and message oriented
applications. But not all strategies can   be used in every application.
For example, there is no such  thing   as  a  multicast byte stream. The
strategy is selected by the user for  the application when the socket is
instantiated. 

TIPC is not TCP/IP based. Consequently, it  cannot signal beyond a local
network span without some kind of  tunneling mechanism. TIPC is designed
to facilitate deployment of  distributed   applications,  where  certain
aspects of the application may be  segregated, and then delegated and/or
duplicated over several machines on  the   same  LAN. The application is
unaware of the topology of the network on  which it is running. It could
be a few threads  operating  in   the  same  process,  several processes
operating on the same machine, or it could be dozens or even hundreds of
machines operating on the same LAN, all operating as a unit. TIPC
manages all of this complexity so that the programmer doesn't have to. 

Unlike TCP/IP, TIPC  does  not  assign   network  addresses  to  network
interfaces; it assigns addresses (e.g. port-ids)   to  sockets when they
are instantiated. The address is unique and persists only as long as the
socket persists. A single Node therefore,   may typically have many TIPC
addresses active at any one time,  each   assigned  to an active socket.
TIPC also provides a means that a process can  use to bind a socket to a
well-known address (e.g. a service). Several peers  may bind to the same
well-known address, thereby enabling multi-server topologies. And server
members may exist anywhere in the Zone. TIPC manages the distribution
of client requests among the membership of   the  server group. A server
instance responds to two addresses: its   public well-known address that
it is bound to, and that a client   may use to establish a communication
with a service, and its private address that the server instance may use
to directly interact with a client instance. 

TIPC also enables multicast and  "publish   and  subscribe" regimes that
applications may use to facilitate   asynchronous  exchange of datagrams
with a number of anonymous sources that may   come and go over time. One
such regime is implemented as a naming  service managed by a distributed
topology server. The  topology  server   provides  surveillance  on  the
comings and goings of publishers, with  advice to interested subscribers
in the form of event notifications,   emitted  when a publisher's status
changes. For example, when a server application  binds to a TIPC address
, that address is automatically associated  with that server instance in
topology server's name table. This has  the   side  effect  of causing a
"published"  event  to  be  emitted    to  all  interested  subscribers.
Conversely, when the server's socket  is  closed   or  when  one  of its
addresses is released using the  "no-scope"   option  of  tipc_bind/3, a
"withdrawn" event is emitted. See tipc_service_port_monitor/2. 

A client application may connect to  the   topology  server  in order to
interrogate the name table to determine  whether   or  not  a service is
present before actually committing to access it. See
tipc_service_exists/2 and tipc_service_probe/2. Another way that the
topology server can be applied is exemplified in Erlang's
"worker/supervisor" behavioral pattern. A supervisor thread has no other
purpose than to monitor a collection of worker threads in order to
ensure that a service is available and able to serve a common goal. When
a worker under the supervisor's care dies, the supervisor receives the
worker's "withdrawn" event, and takes some action to instantiate a
replacement. The predicate, tipc_service_port_monitor/2, is provided
specifically for this purpose. Using the service is optional. It has
applications in distributed, high-availability, fault-tolerant,
and non-stop systems. 

Adding capacity to a cluster becomes  an administrative function whereby
new server hardware is  added  to  a   TIPC  network,  then  the desired
application is launched on the new server. The application binds to
its well-known address, thereby joining in the Cluster. TIPC will
automatically begin sending work to it. An administrator has tools for
gracefully removing a server from a Cluster, without effecting the
traffic moving on the Cluster.

An administrator may configure a  Node  to   have  two  or  more network
interfaces. Provided that each interface is invisible to the other, TIPC
will manage them as a redundant   group,  thus enabling high-reliability
network features such as automatic link fail-over and hot-swap.

---++ TIPC Address Structures

    * name(+Type, +Instance, +Domain)
    A TIPC name address is used by   servers  to advertise themselves as
    services in unicast applications, and is  used by clients to connect
    to unicast services. Type, Instance, and Domain are positive
    integers that are unique to a service.
    
    * name_seq(+Type, +Lower, +Upper)
    A TIPC name-sequence address is used by servers to advertise
    themselves as services in multicast and "publish and subscribe"
    applications. Lower and Upper represent a range of instance
    addresses. Each server will receive exactly one datagram from a
    client that sends a name-sequence address that matches the server's
    Type, and where its Lower and Upper instance range intersects the
    Lower and Upper instance range bound to the server. Clients may send
    a datagram to any and all interested servers by providing an
    appropriate name-sequence address to tipc_send/4. 
    
    * port_id(+Ref, +Node)
    A TIPC port-id is the socket's private   address. It is ephemeral in
    nature. It persists only as long   as  the socket instance persists.
    Port ids are generally provided  to applications via tipc_receive/4.
    An application may discover  its  own   port_id  for  a socket using
    tipc_get_name/2. Generally, others cannot discover  the port-id of a
    socket, except by receiving messages originated   from  it. A server
    responds to a client by providing the received port-id as the sender
    address in a reply message.  The   client  will receive the server's
    port-id via his own tipc_receive/4.  The   client  can then interact
    with a specific server  instance  without   having  to  perform  any
    additional  address  resolution.  The  client    simply   sends  all
    subsequent messages related to a specific  transaction to the server
    instance using the port-id received from the server in its replies.
    
    Sometimes the socket's port-id  alone  is   enough  to  establish an
    ad-hoc session anonymously between parent   and child processes. The
    parent instantiates a socket, then  forks   into  two processes. The
    child retrieves the port-id of the parent from the socket inherited
    from the parent using tipc_get_name/2, then closes the socket and
    instantiates a socket of its own. The child sends a message to the
    parent, on its own socket, using the parent's port-id as the
    destination address. The port-id received by the parent is unique to
    a specific instance of child. The handshake is complete; each side
    knows who the other is, and two-way communication may now proceed. A
    one-way communication (e.g. a message oriented pipe or mailbox) is
    also possible using only the socket inherited from the parent,
    provided that there is exactly one sender and one receiver on the
    socket. Both parent and child use the socket's own port-id, one side
    adopts the role of sender, and the other of receiver.
